Prompt engineering updates (#41518)
dotnet/docs: docs/ai/conceptual/prompt-engineering-dotnet.md

---
title: Prompt Engineering concepts
description: Learn basic prompt engineering concepts and how to implement them using .NET tools such as the Semantic Kernel SDK
author: catbutler
ms.topic: concept-article #Don't change.
ms.date: 06/21/2024

#customer intent: As a .NET developer, I want to understand prompt engineering techniques for .NET so that I can build more efficient and targeted AI apps.

---

# Prompt engineering in .NET

> In this article, you'll explore essential prompt engineering concepts. Many AI models are prompt-based, meaning they respond to user input text (a prompt) with a response generated by predictive algorithms (a completion). Newer models also often supports completions in chat form, with messages based on roles (system, user, assistant) and chat history to preserve conversations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this article, you explore essential prompt engineering concepts. Many AI models are prompt-based, meaning they respond to user input text (a *prompt*) with a response generated by predictive algorithms (a *completion*). Newer models also often support completions in chat form, with messages based on roles (system, user, assistant) and chat history to preserve conversations.
```

- **- George Washington:** shows the model to start each section with George Washington's accomplishments listed on one line.
- **- John Adams:** shows the model that it should list remaining presidents in chronological order.

## Example prompt using .NET

> .NET provides various tools to prompt and chat with different AI models. Use [Semantic Kernel](../semantic-kernel-dotnet-overview.md) to connect to a wide variety of AI models and services, as well as other SDKs such as the official [OpenAI .NET library](https://www.nuget.org/packages/OpenAI-DotNet/). Semantic Kernel includes tools to author prompts with different roles and maintain chat history, as well as many other features.

Reviewer: I think the last sentence is missing a word after "tools to"? It doesn't quite make sense to me.

#pragma warning disable SKEXP0010
Kernel kernel = Kernel.CreateBuilder()
                    .AddOpenAIChatCompletion(
                        modelId: "phi3:mini",
                        endpoint: new Uri("http://localhost:11434"),
                        apiKey: "")
                    .Build();

var aiChatService = kernel.GetRequiredService<IChatCompletionService>();
var chatHistory = new ChatHistory();
chatHistory.Add(
    new ChatMessageContent(AuthorRole.System, "You are a helpful AI Assistant."));

while (true)
{
    // Get user prompt and add to chat history
    Console.WriteLine("Your prompt:");
    chatHistory.Add(new ChatMessageContent(AuthorRole.User, Console.ReadLine()));

    // Stream the AI response and add to chat history
    Console.WriteLine("AI Response:");
    var response = "";
    await foreach (var item in
        aiChatService.GetStreamingChatMessageContentsAsync(chatHistory))
    {
        Console.Write(item.Content);
        response += item.Content;
    }
    chatHistory.Add(new ChatMessageContent(AuthorRole.Assistant, response));
    Console.WriteLine();
}
```

The preceding code provides examples of the following concepts:

> - Creates a chat history service to prompt the AI model for completions based on author roles

Reviewer: These should probably all have periods, especially since the last bullet does.
